Documentation for new feature setHostnameAsFQDN (#21210)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service.md

record unless `publishNotReadyAddresses=True` is set on the Service.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's hostnameFQDN field {#pod-hostnamefqdn-field}

> Currently, when a pod is configured to have fully qualified domain name (FQDN), the hostname field

Reviewer: Hi. Watch out for “currently”, _especially_ when documenting behavior in an area where changes are planned. Consider rewording.

Also bear in mind https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-statements-about-the-future - as much as you can, document what is already merged rather than what is planned to come.

> of the kernel contains the pod shot name. For example, if the Pod FQDN is "`busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`", the `hostname` command would return `busybox-1`, whereas the `hostname --fqdn` command would return the full FQDN. When this field is enabled by setting `hostnameFQDN: true` in the Pod spec, the full FQDN will be inserted in the hostname field of the kernel. In this case, both `hostname` and `hostname --fqdn` would return the full FQDN.

Reviewer: I'd write this as:
```suggestion
of the kernel contains the Pod's short hostname.

For example, if you have a Pod with the fully qualified domain name `busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`, then by default the `hostname` command inside that Pod returns `busybox-1` and  the `hostname --fqdn` command returns the full FQDN.
When you set `hostnameFQDN: true` in the Pod spec, the kubelet writes the Pod's FQDN into the hostname for that Pod's namespace. In this case, both `hostname` and `hostname --fqdn` return the Pod's FQDN.
```

{{< note >}}

> Because hostname field of the kernel is limited to 63 characters, pods that enable this feature and have a longer than 63 character FQDN will fail to start. These pods will remain in ContainerCreating with errors regarding FQDN length. One way of improving user UX is to create an [admission webhook controller](docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, e.g., Deployment.

Reviewer: I presume that 63 character limit is specific to POSIX / Linux rather than to Kubernetes overall. What happens if you're running containers on (eg) Windows.

Also: [avoid Latin phrases](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-latin-phrases) such as e.g.

record unless `publishNotReadyAddresses=True` is set on the Service.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's setHostnameAsFQDN field {#pod-sethostnameasfqdn-field}

When a Pod is configured to have fully qualified domain name (FQDN), its hostname is the short hostname. For example, if you have a Pod with the fully qualified domain name `busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`, then by default the `hostname` command inside that Pod returns `busybox-1` and  the `hostname --fqdn` command returns the full FQDN.

When you set `setHostnameAsFQDN: true` in the Pod spec, the kubelet writes the Pod's FQDN into the hostname for that Pod's namespace. In this case, both `hostname` and `hostname --fqdn` return the Pod's FQDN.

{{< note >}}

> In Linux, the hostname field of the kernel (the nodename field of struct utsname) is limited to 64 characters. If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character, it will fail to start. The Pod will remain in `Pending` status (`ContainerCreating` as seen by `kubectl`) generating error events regarding its FQDN length. One way of improving user experience for this scenario is to create an [admission webhook controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, for example, Deployment.

Reviewer: nit (Ok to merge without making changes here)
```suggestion
In Linux, the hostname field of the kernel (the `nodename` field of `struct utsname`) is limited to 64 characters.

If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character, it will fail to start. The Pod will remain in `Pending` status (`ContainerCreating` as seen by `kubectl`) generating error events regarding its FQDN length. One way of improving user experience for this scenario is to create an [admission webhook controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, for example, Deployment.
```

Author: thanks @sftim. I updated with the suggested change, but I think the `note` formatting does not allow breaks, nothing changed in the output.

Reviewer: > I think the note formatting does not allow breaks, nothing changed in the output.

For context: The backticks were the main thing I wanted but I'm also hoping to fix the note shortcode soon so I suggested adding a newline too.

Reviewer: (and I'll reiterate that it's OK to merge without addressing this very minor feedback).

Author: I missed the backticks, yeah it makes sense to add them. I just did. I will leave the new line as well.

record unless `publishNotReadyAddresses=True` is set on the Service.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's setHostnameAsFQDN field {#pod-sethostnameasfqdn-field}

> When a Pod is configured to have fully qualified domain name (FQDN), its hostname is the short hostname. For example, if you have a Pod with the fully qualified domain name `busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`, then by default the `hostname` command inside that Pod returns `busybox-1` and  the `hostname --fqdn` command returns the FQDN.

Reviewer 2: This is lacking an alpha notice.

```
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.19" state="alpha" >}}
```

A mention of the Feature gate would be useful too.

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: Does it make sense to remove `full` and just say,
... command returns the FQDN.

Author: i removed `full`. thanks

When you set `setHostnameAsFQDN: true` in the Pod spec, the kubelet writes the Pod's FQDN into the hostname for that Pod's namespace. In this case, both `hostname` and `hostname --fqdn` return the Pod's FQDN.

{{< note >}}
In Linux, the hostname field of the kernel (the `nodename` field of `struct utsname`) is limited to 64 characters.

> If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character, it will fail to start. The Pod will remain in `Pending` status (`ContainerCreating` as seen by `kubectl`) generating error events regarding its FQDN length. One way of improving user experience for this scenario is to create an [admission webhook controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, for example, Deployment.

Reviewer 3: Is this page relevant:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-label-names

Author: I am not sure we should link to that page, it might be confusing for users. That page is mentioning that some k8s objects follow the same regex as DNS for naming. In this page we are discussing networking concepts, which are not really k8s objects.

Reviewer 3: Right. I guess I found this phrase confusing:
`If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character,`
I'll see if the KEPs add clarification.

> If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character, it will fail to start. The Pod will remain in `Pending` status (`ContainerCreating` as seen by `kubectl`) generating error events regarding its FQDN length. One way of improving user experience for this scenario is to create an [admission webhook controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, for example, Deployment.

Reviewer 4: It may be helpful to know the name of the failure event.

Author: Thanks @dashpole, good idea. I changed sentence to add example.
